fix: Build a new workshop for debugging using throw/try/catch/finally in js (#67750)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/workshop-library-search/6a1c48b465a40113ecf3766f.md

---
id: 6a1c48b465a40113ecf3766f
title: Step 4
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-4
---

# --description--

Your function will now stop running and throw an error if the user tries to search with an empty field.

But what if the user searches for a book that is not in your `library` array? You need to handle that exception, too.

Below your first `if` statement, create a second `if` statement. Inside the condition, use the logical NOT operator (`!`) and the `.includes()` method to check if the `library` array does not include the `title` passed into the function.

> Inside the `if` statement, use the `throw` keyword to throw a `new Error()`. Pass the expression `title + " not found!"` as an argument to the Error constructor.

Reviewer: `Error` is backticked everywhere else, including step 3's version of this same instruction. Step 3 also phrases it "Pass the exact string `...` into the `Error` constructor", so matching that wording keeps the two steps consistent.

```suggestion
Inside the `if` statement, use the `throw` keyword to throw a `new Error()`. Pass the expression `title + " not found!"` into the `Error` constructor.
```

---
id: 6a1c48b465a40113ecf3766f
title: Step 5
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-5
---

# --description--

Your function will now stop running and throw an error if the user tries to search with an empty field.

But what if the user searches for a book that is not in your `library` array? You need to handle that exception, too.

Below your first `if` statement, create a second `if` statement. Inside the condition, use the logical NOT operator (`!`) and the `.includes()` method to check if the `library` array does not include the `title` passed into the function.

Leave the body of the `if` statement empty for now.

# --hints--

You should create a second `if` statement that checks if `library` does not include `title`. Leave the body of the `if` statement empty.

```js
const explorer = await __helpers.Explorer(code);
assert.exists(explorer.allFunctions.findBook);

> assert.match(explorer.allFunctions.findBook.toString(), /if\s*\(\s*!library\.includes\(\s*title\s*\)\s*\)\s*\{\s*\}/);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(explorer.allFunctions.findBook.toString()), /if\s*\(\s*!library\.includes\(\s*title\s*\)\s*\)\s*\{\s*\}/);
```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Library Book Search</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div>
      <h1>Find book title</h1>
      <input type="text" id="bookTitleInput" placeholder="Enter book title">
      <button id="search">Search</button>
      <p id="statusMessage"></p>
      <p id="scanStatus"></p>
    </div>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

```css
body {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 100vh;
}

input {
  padding: 0.5rem;
  width: 200px;
}

button {
  padding: 0.5rem 1rem;
  cursor: pointer;
  background-color: #000000;
  color: white;
}

#statusMessage {
  margin-top: 1.5rem;
  font-weight: bold;
  height: 1.5rem;
}
```

```js
const library = [
  "The Hobbit", "1984", "Dune", "Fahrenheit 451", "To Kill a Mockingbird",
  "The Great Gatsby", "Moby Dick", "Pride and Prejudice", "Frankenstein"
];

const searchBtn = document.getElementById('search');
const statusDisplay = document.getElementById('statusMessage');

> const bookInput = document.getElementById('bookTitleInput');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const searchBtn = document.getElementById("search");
const statusDisplay = document.getElementById("statusMessage");
const bookInput = document.getElementById("bookTitleInput");
```

const findBook = (title) => {
  if (title === "") {
    throw new Error("Search field cannot be empty");
  }

--fcc-editable-region--
  
--fcc-editable-region--
  return title + " is available to borrow!";
}

> searchBtn.addEventListener('click', () => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
};

searchBtn.addEventListener("click", () => {
```
